


Drupal is an advanced and powerful content management framework, built on the PHP scripting language and supported by a database engine like MySQL. Drupal provides a flexible system that can be used to manage websites of all different types and profiles. Drupal is capable of providing the tools necessary to create rich, interactive “community” websites with forums, user blogs, and private messaging. Drupal can also provide support for multifaceted personal publishing projects and can power podcasts, blogs, and knowledge-based systems, all within a single, unified platform.

As the system’s functionality is highly modular, one might even be inclined to think about Drupal not strictly as a content management system but rather as a content management framework. In addition to the core infrastructure, there are a number of Drupal modules that allow administrators of Drupal sites to provide specific functionality to the users of their sites without needing to spend resources on custom development. Furthermore, Drupal has an advanced theming engine that allows for a great amount of flexibility for displaying content in a visually useful and productive manner.

Drupal manages many visually stunning, popular sites like Weather.com, WhiteHouse.gov, and Rutgers.edu. Drupal has been in continuous release since 2001. Because of an active development cycle, Drupal releases an update every two to four months. A huge user community attends bi-annual conferences in North America and Europe.

Drupal’s strength lies in its organization. Drupal starts with the Drupal core, a base set of files, which allows for package add-ons like themes or modules. The core may have a basic set of modules or built-in themes, but can be continually customized. Optionally, a Drupal distribution is a similar to the core but centered around specific site needs. Distributions exist for kickstarter sites, news media sites, or community-based sites, to name a few.
JoomlaPermalink

Joomla has been in release since 2005 and manages sites like eBay, General Electric, and Ikea. Joomla released version 4.0 in March 2015. While Drupal has more modules and themes, Joomla has more extensions with thousands of add-on options, although the idea of modules and extensions often overlap. Both Drupal and Joomla have users in the millions, which means thousands of user comments and help topics can be found online.

Joomla works best for intermediate users, and while it lends itself to social collaboration or community-driven website design, it can be customized toward any situation. The installation process is uncomplicated, but generating content will not be as easy as it is with WordPress.
WordPressPermalink

Originally built as a blogger platform, WordPress is arguably the easiest to use and the most popular. Initially released in 2003, it has grown rapidly since. The WP platform is used for over 60 million websites, and 100,000 new websites are created daily.

WordPress is best for static content. However, WP sites are often built for complex, dynamic solutions because the community is so large and has added so many capabilities. The structure of the company behind WordPress, Automattic, and its philosophy represent the ability for large growth with such an open-source project.